So kind of the same thing as project-1,
where I have a starter HTML file,
and we're going to kind of
fill in the blanks and write.
Except that this time
there's no utils file,
we're gonna write a lot
of this from scratch.
So there is a part 2 as
well to this project.
And part 2 is where instead of teaching
the model through teachable machine,
we're going to do everything
in our own application.
But to get started, as more of the quick
start, we just have three divs here.
There's a Start button that's
gonna kinda init everything.
And then we have a webcam-container and
a label-container so
pretty, just small divs.
So if we open, let me just check that.
Verify that here,
the first file that's imported is part 1.
It should be if you have
not modified these files.
So we're going to start writing our code.
Okay, so if you have run npm install,
you should now be able to run,
npm run start.
And yes, okay, no error, that's cool.
Okay, so here we just have a Start button,
at the moment it does nothing,
we have no interaction.
Yeah, no interaction that we implemented.
So the point of this example is,
again, we're gonna start the webcam.
I'm gonna do a little bit differently,
because here,
if you look at the index.html,
there is actually a teachable
machine image library that
you can have in a script tag.
So import into your application and they
have their own syntax in terms of toggling
the webcam and taking a screen capture, so
we're just gonna use what
they're offering us, basically.
So here, I'm gonna change the syntax
a little bit, we're not importing here.
We have the script tags there just to show
you that you can do it in two different
ways, but there's just the minified
TensorFlow.js library and
the minified teachable machine image.
Because, as I showed before, there's
also one with sound and one with pose.
Okay, so first of all, to be able to
use our model, we also have to load it.
So the first thing that we're gonna do
is go and get the path to the file.
So let's say, or maybe,
yeah, I can call it path.
And then, for me here,
I can see I called it my_model".
So here, it's just going to be the folder
that has the three different files here.
And then we also want to be able to
add interaction with a startButton,
so we're going to get that button,
I think it has idea of start.
So at the moment,
we have the path to the folder,
we have a startButton, and we want
to be able to add an onclick event.
So as we did before,
we have startButton.onclick,
we have arrow function and
we are going to call init that we
have not created yet, but we will.
Again, we're just kinda
setting up the project.
And now let's create
the actual init function.
So, we have, oops, init, and probably will
actually be an asynchronous function,
cuz I think, yes,
it needs to be asynchronous function.
Okay, as was mentioned very recently,
in the my_model folder,
there's three different files.
So here in the model.json file,
what this has is more the description of
the different layers of the model
that was actually downloaded.
So for example,
here you have class name is sequential.
So in terms of types of models that
you can create with TensorFlow.js,
there is sequential models and
functional models.
I have not used functional models before,
but
sequential just means that you have
layers that are in a sequence.
So you start by feeding a lot
of data to your first layer, and
then it has an output that is fed
to the second, and to the third,
and how many layers that you have.
So here, oops, here, for example,
you have layers that's an array in here,
so it's a description of how your model
was actually built in terms of its layers.
And you have different
parameters like here, Conv1,
that must be a convolutional,
like a Conv2D layer.
So usually, it's what's working
with images, and 2D means x and y,
two-dimensional layer, and you have
some parameters like number of filters.
I wouldn't know too much more about this,
cuz obviously we did not
write this model ourselves.
It's a combination of what we're using
the background of teachable machine,
which is the MobileNet model, and
we're adding our content on top of that.
That might make a little bit more sense
once we do part 2, where we're writing
everything from scratch, but the
model.json by itself is not everything.
What you also need is the metadata.json.
And this is more of like it also has some
parameters where it tells you the version
of TensorFlow.js used, the package that
it might need to actually use with and
the labels that we were training.
So right and left, so that then when
you have the prediction from the model,
it will know it's either right or left,
it cannot predict something
that it doesn't know.
And also,
it was trained with an image size of 224.
So that's kind of important, because
when you're feeding images to the model,
it will expect an image size
of that number of pixels.
And then we have the weights file here,
but this is a binary file.
So even if I was opening it
with a X editor or something,
that's not really readable, but
this weights file is essential.
So if you thought, that's useless,
I'm gonna remove it, you actually can't.
It won't work, because I think
it's in the, oop, not here.
Yes, so here in your model.json file,
it's describing how the model was built.
And it will need this weights stat
bin file, because that will tell
it a little bit how the model was
tweaked during the training process.
So as I was mentioning
earlier on in the course,
the weights are just adjusted
as the model is being retrained.
So even though we can't see what's in this
weight span or if you were doing maybe
binary reverse engineering or
something like that, it still needs it.
So even we're gonna import just the
model.json file, but in the background,
this file is going to kind of require
the details that are in the weights file.
So now that we have these three files,
though,
we need to just specify the ones that
we're gonna import in our application.
So in our init function, we can have,
oops, a variable called const modelPath.
We called it path before, so
let's just keep it like that.
And that would be either path and
model.json.
So because we're going into the, sorry,
by the way, at the beginning,
I forgot the end slash here.
So if you've been following along,
don't forget to pass in the slash
after the name of the folder.
So the path to the model is
the path + the name, model.json.
If you decide to rename that file,
don't forget to rename it here as well,
and we're going to import
the metadataPath as well,
and that would be the same thing path,
but two metadata.json file.
Okay, so at the moment,
it's just stored in variables,
we haven't actually loaded
anything in the browser yet.
Let's declare a model variable
as well outside of the function,
cuz we're gonna use it in
a few different places.
So we have a model variable, and
here we're going to actually
assign it the model being loaded.
See it's an await function, and here,
we're writing tmImage and that's
coming from the teachable machine library
that's impoted in the index.html file.
So we have tmImage.load,
because it's always load.
And then we are gonna pass
it the two parameters.
So the path to the model, so modelPath and
the path to the metadata file as well.
So at this point here, in the model
variable should be our accessible
like the actual model loaded in
the browser so you can actually use it.
Then what we can do, there's a function
that you can call on that model that's
called getTotalClasses to kind of see that
the total classes that we trained is two.
In our case, we know the number of
classes, because we trained the model.
So I'm gonna write it anyway in case
sometimes someone sends you a model that
you have to use and you don't know how
many classes there is even though you
could see it from here, but let's just
imagine that we want to write that anyway.
So we have maxPredictions or
could also be, no,
it could be maxPredictions,
cuz it could either be one of
the two label, so
that would be model.getTotalClasses.
So that's also a method that's available
on the model when we're using tmImage.
And then at this point,
the model is loaded and
we just have the number of total classes.
Okay, so the next step that we
have to do is to get the webcam,
because we're going to have
to take pictures from it.
So where you declared the model variable,
we can also have webcam variable here.
And we're going to assign it, webcam =.
Again, it's going to be method that
you can call from tmImage, so we're
gonna instantiate a new webcam object, so
a new tmImage.webcam with a capital M.
Don't forget that,
otherwise it will not know what it is.
And in that webcam,
we are going to pass it, oops, a question?
>> Just real simple one, how tmImage is in
scope because of the CDN calls additional?
>> Yes.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah, exactly, I didn't import it
the way that I did before just to show
that you could do it in multiple ways,
you could definitely also have
a package that you import, yeah.
But yes, yes, that's right.
I think that when you import this,
it adds,
yes, it makes available
a tmImage variable.
Okay, so now that we kind of declared
a new webcam, there's actually parameters
that you need to pass and
that will be the dimension of the webcam.
So here in my particular
example had 200 and 200 and
true is flipping of, I mean,
there's a third value, sorry.
I have it true, but I'm wondering
if we should have true or false.
It's like flipping the webcam.
And in the previous example,
we had it false, so
let's start with false
to keep it consistent.
And if we had an issue
because we just did right and
left, maybe flip is going to,
let's give it a try.
So I'll have to remember later
that if there's an issue,
it might be because of that.
But for now, let's have it false, and
we need to actually call a new function,
that's setup.
So I think that's going to,
actually, this, it's an await.
So await webcam.setup, and that's going
to do things in the background that I'm
actually, it's going to
request access to the camera.
So the same way that we had it before,
but more manually.
This setup is making sure that it's
requesting you for access, and
you'll have to allow it if it asks you.
If it doesn't ask you, you might have at
some point allowed it for all websites or
something like that.
But at this point, it's not actually
rendering the webcam in the page.
So what we're gonna do is
await webcam.play, and
that will actually start playing
the webcam feed in the browser.
And then after that, so
even though you have the webcam set up and
it will start streaming, we need to
actually do something with that.
We need to start kind of
continuously calling a function so
that it will run continuously
the prediction on the webcam output.
So what we're gonna do, we just have
a window.requestAnimationFrame, and
we are gonna call it, I'm gonna try
to find a word that's maybe, okay.
We're gonna call it loop just to
be maybe clear that it's looping.
But we have not declared that
function yet, so we will.
First, we need to append
the camera onto the page,
cuz at the moment,
we instantiated on object.
We are setting it up and playing it, but
we're not appending the image coming
back from the webcam to the page.
So here,
if you look at the index.html file,
this is what the webcam-container is.
So we're going to do
document.getElementById("webcam-containe-
r"), and we're going to append as a child,
not just the webcam, but
webcam.canvas, webcam.canvas.
Okay, and at this point,
that should be it for the beginning.
So we have webcam,
it plays, it's rendered.
But we have not declared
our looping function.